# Ansible Role: VyOS Config

Replaces a VyOS config with a supplied set-style config or variables.

Updated for: `1.5-rolling-202404200018`

## Usage

### VyOS Setup

Install VyOS and connect it to the network, so Ansible can connect.

Add the Ansible user, using SSH keys (example):

```
set system login user ansible authentication public-keys ansible type 'ssh-rsa'
set system login user ansible authentication public-keys ansible key 'AAAAB3..........kLJfWz16Dw=='
```

### Ansible Setup

The following must be set for the VyOS host:

```yml
ansible_connection: "ansible.netcommon.network_cli"
ansible_network_os: "vyos.vyos.vyos"
```

### VyOS Config

The config must be set-style, i.e. using `set` statements

The config can be created through three methods:

1. Supply the full config through the `vyos_config_path` variable. This gives full flexibility, but requires you to transform data to config yourself. See `example_full.cfg.j2`.
1. Supply data to the input variables and let this role build the config. This is useful if your data matches the input variables, lacks some config variants.
1. A mix of the two, by supplying a config file containing `include` statements to include certain parts that are generated by this role. See `example_mixed.cfg.j2`.

Due to a command filter in the module, quotes must be used for other parts of the command to bypass the filter. Use `{{ fq }}` to add these quotes when required, so they can be stripped for the clean version of the config used for the diff.

Make sure you don't lock yourself out by messing up your connection or changing the Ansible user.

### Testing

This role supports `--check` mode, to build and check the config without committing it.

Set variable `vyos_config_debug_mode=true` to avoid deleting the local temporary config files and print their paths instead, so you can inspect the generated config.
